 Bernie Sanders is hard at work on the campaign trail this holiday weekend. And he joins me this morning from New Hampshire. Happy new year, Senator Sanders.

We noticed that today is the 25th anniversary of your first day in Congress. Twenty five years, what do you say to critics who say the country needs a president from outside Washington and not a career politician?

 Well, what I say is if you study my record, I'm not exactly a career politician. Martha, during my tenure in the Congress, I have taken on virtually every powerful special interest from Wall Street to the insurance companies to the pharmaceutical industry to the military- industrial complex. 

What my campaign is about is standing up to the billionaire class today, and making certain that we do not continue to see the decline of the American middle class, where people are working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent. That is the issue that I find that the American people are most concerned about, the decline of the middle class, massive income and wealth inequality, and a corrupt campaign finance system.

 Well, let me take you back to 1990 on election night. This is what you said. "We need a mass movement of tens of millions of people prepared to say that we want national health care, that we want the millionaires and multi-national corporations who are not paying their fair share, to pay their fair share."

That sounds an awful lot like Bernie Sanders 2015, but you haven't really been able to create that mass movement. How can we imagine that you'll do it now?

 Well, Martha, we're doing pretty well. You know, I started this campaign at 3 percent in the polls. There were some polls that had me out recently at 39 percent. Come to my meetings. They're huge all over the United States of America.

And what we are seeing is mass dissatisfaction on the part of the middle class. We're seeing people who are really upset that they can't afford to send their kids to college. They can't afford childcare. The rich are getting richer; almost everybody else is getting poorer. And what people are saying is, you know, it's absurd. That with massive income...

 Let me turn to Iowa.

 ...and wealth inequality...

 Let me turn to Iowa, Senator Sanders. This is what you recently said at a campaign stop.

[]

