 Senator Sanders, welcome back to Fox News Sunday. 

 My pleasure.

 There is already a fierce argument after the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, Democrats say the president should name and the Senate should confirm his successor. Republicans say that should be left to the next president. Where do you stand, sir?

 No, I think we want a full contingent on the United States Supreme Court. We are dealing with enormously important issues. The Constitution is pretty clear. The president makes the appointment, Senate confirms, let's get on with that business.

 You disagreed with Justice Scalia on a judicial basis, not a personal basis, on almost every issue. What do you think his legacy is, sir?

 Well, clearly, he was a brilliant man. A very colorful man. Aa very outspoken man. And I happen to respect people who are willing to come under public scrutiny and serve their country. So you're right, Chris, he and I had very different points of view, but I respect people who are willing and prepared to serve their country.

 Senator Sanders, let's turn to politics. The Clinton campaign strategy now is that they have a firewall as the campaign turns west and south in states with much larger minority voters. She's beating you by 10 points according to the latest polls in Nevada, 30 points in South Carolina. Just how strong is the Clinton firewall?

 Well, you know, when we began this campaign, Chris, we were at 3 percent in the polls nationally. We were 50 points behind in Iowa, 30 points behind in New Hampshire. But clearly the results in both of those states turned out to be very different than when we were -- where we were when we started.

I think we're going to surprise people in Nevada. I think we're going to surprise people in South Carolina. I am talking to you right now from Denver, Colorado, where we just had 18,000 people coming out to a rally. I think we're looking really good with a whole lot of momentum for Super Tuesday as well.

 But when you were talking about those polls, that was six months before the voting actually took place. We're talking a week or two before the voting takes place in South Carolina and Nevada. And, also, the Clintons have such long, deep ties to the African- American community. Why should a black voter choose you over Hillary Clinton? 

 Well, I think because if you look at my life's work, if you look at the agenda and -- that we are bringing forth in terms of economics and criminal justice, this is an agenda that works for all Americans, but especially for those who are hardest hurt, hardest hit economically. We're talking about raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour over the next several years. We're talking about pay equity for women. We're talking about creating millions of decent paying jobs, rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. We are talking about focusing on the outrageously high rate of youth unemployment in the African- American community. We are talking about having the United States join the rest of the industrialized world guaranteeing health care to all, making tuition at public colleges and universities free so all of our kids, regardless of income, can get the higher education that they need. And we're also tackling, in a very aggressive way, a broken criminal justice system in which we have, Chris, as a nation, more people in jail than any other major country on earth, disproportionately African-American and Latino. We need a whole lot of work to make sure that we are providing education and jobs for our kids, rather than jails and incarceration.

 Senator, Priorities USA Action, the super PAC that is supporting Hillary Clinton, has just announced that it is going to spend $5 million now to help her instead of waiting until the general election. When you brought up that super PAC during the debate this week, she denied there was much of a relationship. Watch.

[]

