 Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders joining me now. Senator, good to see you. First, congratulations on West Virginia. 

 Thank you very much. 

 But at the same time, you come out of there, at least now by our count, with a 17-17 delegate divide. So you win big but you still don't catch up. You don't close that gap. What's the path moving forward? 

 You know, Andrea, it -- it is interesting and you raise a good point. Hillary Clinton got I think 35 percent, 36 percent of the vote, popular vote yesterday, and yet she gets six out of seven of the superdelegates. And that's what we've been seeing all over this country. In many cases, we win landslide victories, 65 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent of the vote, and she gets the superdelegates. I think the people of many of those states are going to be saying to those superdelegates, hey, you know what? Why don't you reflect the views of the people in the state who voted for Bernie Sanders? And that's one of the areas that we're going to be focusing on in the coming weeks.

 Well, certainly that sounds like one of the areas you're going to be focusing on in terms of trying to get reform, commitments from her, from her team at the convention or before, that the process is going to change. 

 Well, no, what we're going to be focusing on in the next month is winning the Democratic nomination. Right now, Andrea, we have about 45.5 percent of the pledged delegates. That is the real delegates who are voted on by the people. There are eight primaries and caucuses remaining. We think many of the states in front of us are sympathetic to a progression mission -- message of standing up for the working class and the middle class against Wall Street and the billionaire class. We think we're going to do very, very well. And if we do extremely well -- and I know it's a steep climb but we have been fighting an uphill battle from day one -- but if we do very, very well, we still have the possibility of coming in with the majority of pledged delegates. 

 Who is in charge and how are you working this attempt to get the superdelegates, to recruit them, to switch them over? Are you making calls yourself, for instance? Do you have an operation? Tell us what's going on. 

 Well, we are going to have a very strong operation and the point that we're going to make to the superdelegates is a very simple one. Over 400 superdelegates came on board Secretary Clinton's campaign before anybody else was in the race. Before anybody else was running. That's pretty crazy. And that talks about the weakness of this whole superdelegate system. 

No. 2, the point that we're going to make loud and clear is that in virtually every national poll that's been out there in the last month or six weeks, and in almost state poll, Bernie Sanders runs stronger against Donald Trump than does Hillary Clinton. And I think what every delegate to the Democratic National Convention wants, most importantly, is to defeat Donald Trump. The case we'll make is that I am the stronger candidate. 

And it's not only polling. Polling goes up and down. It is the fact that our campaign is the campaign bringing in working class people, bringing in young people, people who are sick and tired of establishment politics, establishment commitments, establishment media. People in this country are hurting. They want real change. We are the campaign of that change. 

 Well, Senator Sanders, flying in the face of that is the exit poll data from West Virginia that shows that 34 percent, 34 percent of the Sanders voters said that they would vote for Donald Trump in a Trump/Sanders match-up. 

 Well, that is what some of those people are saying today. 

 A third of them. 

 The general election, as you know, is in November. I think in a race with Donald Trump, Andrea, not only do I think we would win that race, I think we would win it overwhelmingly. Because I think the people of America, the more they see Mr. Trump, understand that he's a total phony, that what he said yesterday is not what he's going to say tomorrow. That he is a pathological liar and that he gets a lot of media attention for attacking people but that is going to wear thin. 

The American people understand there's something wrong when they are working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth goes to the 1 percent. They understand there's something wrong when we are the only major country on earth not to guarantee health care to all of our people or paid family and medical leave. 

Bottom line is, the American people are not going to go to an establishment billionaire who changes his mind every day. They want I think a president who has a life history of fighting for working people and prepared to take on big money interests. 

 But isn't the bottom line about you versus Hillary Clinton and who would be the stronger candidate, that she is now fighting a war on two fronts? She's getting beaten up by Donald Trump on a daily basis. Aside him from calling you Crazy Bernie in his tweet, he has been embracing you. He is building you up. He likes the fact that you're taking her down. So she's fighting Donald Trump. She's fighting Bernie Sanders. 

 One -- one second. One second. One second..

 And that's depressing her overall --

 Andrea, no, I don't accept -- Andrea, I don't accept that proposition. Last I heard, Hillary Clinton is running for President of the United States. I am running for president of the United States. Trump is running for President of the United States. And what a candidate does is make his or her best case to the American people. 

I have gotten attacked and attacked and attacked. My record has been misinterpreted and lied about. The issue of this campaign is to go out to the American people and talk about why the American people are working, are struggling. Hillary Clinton has got to make that case. Trump has got to make that case. Sanders has got to make that case. And that's what we intend to do.

 I'm just saying that --

 And I know -- yes, I'm sorry.

 I'm just saying that -- sir, I'm just saying that Hillary Clinton's - the opposition to her, the negatives against her, have been built up by Donald Trump just hammering away at her. And up until now at least he has not been going after you as much. She's fighting two candidates and you're fighting one. 

 Andrea, Andrea -- oh really. Oh, really? Hah. Andrea, in every state that we have one, in 19 states, we have had to take on the entire Democratic establishment. We've had to take on senators and governors and mayors and members of Congress. That's what we have taken on, so please do not moan to me about Hillary Clinton's problems. 

I'm in this race to win. We're taking on the Democratic establishment. We are standing up for working people and we have a shot. It is a steep hill to climb, but we're going to fight for every last vote that we can get, every delegate that we can get. And that's what I intend to do in the next month, five weeks.

 Well, I don't think I was moaning about Hillary Clinton's problems. But just to point out, let me play a little bit of Donald Trump on "Morning Joe" and ask you to react. 

[]

