Thank you.

I'd like to thank Chairman Jeff Miller for his leadership on behalf of those who have served this country in military uniform, and for working with our campaign on developing real solutions for our great Veterans.

Before going further today, however, I would first like to address the contributions of another group who serve this country in uniform: the men and women in blue.

Our Police Officers rush into danger every day to protect our communities, and they often do it thanklessly and under relentless criticism.

They save thousands of lives every year, perform countless public services every day, and yet their names will likely never appear in a single headline or media report.

But I want our nation's police to know, .

The attack on our Dallas police is an attack on our country.

Our whole nation is in mourning, and will be for a very long time.

Yet, we've also seen increasing threats against our police and a substantial rise in the number of officers killed in the line of duty.

America's police and law enforcement personnel are what separates civilization from total chaos – and the destruction of our country as we know it.

We must remember, the police are needed the most where crime is the highest. Politicians and activists who seek to remove police or policing from a community are hurting the poorest and most vulnerable Americans.

It is time for the hostility against our police, and against all members of law enforcement, to end – .

We went through an ugly chapter in our history, during Vietnam, when our troops became the victims of harassment and political agendas. For too many police today, that is their daily reality.

At the same time, the tragic deaths in Louisiana and Minnesota make clear the work that must be done to ensure every American feels that their safety is protected. We were all disturbed by the images we saw.

We must discuss, as well, the ongoing catastrophe of crime in our inner cities. According to the Chicago Tribune, there has already been more than 2,000 shooting victims in Chicago this year alone. This epidemic of violence destroys lives, destroys communities, and destroys opportunity for young Americans.

Violent crime has increased in cities across America. The New York Times described "a startling rise in murders," in our major cities.

Brutal drug cartels are spreading their reach into Virginia and Maryland.

Too many Americans are trapped in fear, violence and poverty.

Our inner cities have been left behind, and I am going to fight to make sure every citizen of this country has a safe home, safe school and safe community.

We must maintain law and order at the highest level or .

