 And we're back. Here are the very latest MSNBC/McClatchy polling numbers for the Democrats in Iowa. Edwards, 24; Clinton, 23; Obama, 22; Richardson, 12; Biden, 8.

Welcome back to MEET THE PRESS, Senator Obama. Close race. There you are. You slipped a few points into third place. What--can you react to that? How do you react to that?

 Well, you know, I've been just coming off, you know, a tour of eastern Iowa. We are seeing unbelievable crowds. Every single place we go, crowds that are two, three times what we're seeing in, in some of the other campaigns, so we know the enthusiasm is there, the energy is there. We have as good of an organization, I think, as people have ever seen in Iowa. And this is going to be a tight race, and I think the polls are going to be bouncing up and down over the next five days. But what we're confident about is that, if our folks come to the caucus and participate, that we're going to do very well.

 But without a big turnout, you could be in trouble?

 Well, I, I think everybody's predicting a big turnout at this point. I mean, we have seen the kinds of enthusiasm and energy that is remarkable, and, and it's an indication of how badly I think people are looking for change right now. They understand that we can't keep on doing what we've been doing. They are responding to a message that we can bring the country together, that we can push the special interests and lobbyists out of setting the agenda in Washington, and they're particularly responding, I think, to the idea that we need some straight talk with the American people about how we're going to meet the challenges ahead.

 Let me turn to Pakistan. Do you believe the elections scheduled for January 8th should be postponed?

 Well, I think it--the key is to make sure that there's legitimacy to those elections. And given the enormous tragedy that has happened, I think that it is understandable if those elections are delayed slightly. But, but it's important that they are not used--that this is not used as an excuse to put off, indefinitely, elections. And so my main concern is making sure that the opposition parties feel comfortable that they have the opportunity to participate in fair and free elections. That also means, by the way, that we reinstate an independent judiciary in Pakistan, that they are making sure that there is a free press, that the campaigning can proceed. Because our primary interest is making sure that whatever government emerges in Pakistan is viewed as legitimate. And one of the things that we haven't focused on is that the vast majority of the Pakistani people are moderate and believe in rule of law. That's who we want as allies in the fight against Islamic extremism.

 Benazir Bhutto was on MEET THE PRESS October of 2001, shortly after September 11th, and we're going to post that entire interview on our msnbc.com Web site, but she offered these words about General Musharraf. Let's listen.

