 Barack Obama hasn't clinched the Democratic presidential nomination yet, but look at this, the cover of "TIME" magazine declaring him the winner after the latest round of primaries. How is he marking this important moment in this campaign? 

Well, Senator Barack Obama is right here in "The Situation Room," the very first interview he's given since Tuesday's contests in North Carolina and Indiana. 

Senator, welcome. 

 Good to see you, Wolf. 

 Here is the cover, "And the Winner Is..." That's a picture of you. What do you think? 

 Well, you know, I think -- I don't want to be jinxed. We've still got some work to do. 

 It's almost like you got the cover of "Sports Illustrated." Is that what you're -- you're nervous about that? 

 Exactly. Exactly right.

We've got six more contests left. And then we've got a lot of work to do to bring the party together, but, obviously, we felt very good about our win in North Carolina on Tuesday. I think we ran a terrific campaign in Indiana. And it was a virtual tie. And, if you look at where the race is at this point, I think we have seen voters across the country say they are ready for change. They are feeling real anxiety about the economy. 

And they have come to recognize that, unless we change how Washington is done. It's going to be very hard to deliver on a smarter energy policy. It's going to be hard to -- to provide health care for people who need it or make college more affordable. And I think our campaign has benefited from it. And, so, I'm looking forward to bringing this party together and going after John McCain in the fall, and -- and, hopefully, getting this country on the right track. 

 It's been intense in the primaries. But you realize it's going to be much more intense in the next chapter, in the next phase, given the differences between you and John McCain. Are you ready for this next phase? 

 I'm actually looking forward to it, if we're successful. I don't want to get ahead of myself here. Senator Clinton is a very formidable candidate. She is very heavily favored to win West Virginia. She will win that by a big margin. 

She's favored in Kentucky. We'll probably split the remaining contests. And, so, she's -- she's going to be actively campaigning. 

If I'm fortunate enough to be the nominee, then I am looking forward to the general election precisely because there is such a big, stark contrast...

 

 There are major differences between you and John McCain...

 Exactly. 

 ... on a whole host of domestic issues...

 Exactly. 

 .. and foreign policy issues. And I want to go through those right now. 

 Sure. 

 Already, some of his surrogates, some of his supporters, are suggesting you're not ready to be commander in chief, president of the United States. 

Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, said this. Listen to this. 

