Thank you so much. I think the best thing for me to do is just say thank you very much. I am very grateful to so many of you for coming out this morning and being part of this event here in Johnston. It is very exciting for me to have so many of my friends from my entire life who have come out here to talk with Iowans, to answer questions, to give you some insight and information about our relationships, about what I've been trying to do for my entire life and particularly as an adult. 

There are so many people who feel invisible right now. They feel like nobody is listening. They don't have health care for themselves and their families and they don't know what they are going to do. Or they have just been told their job is going to be moved overseas and they are not quite sure how they are going to keep going. Or they are counting pennies at the table trying to make sure that they can pay to fill the tank in their car or their truck. I think it's one of the most important jobs of a president, of anybody in public life because it is such a public trust, to really listen and to reach out and to learn and to work as hard as you can to make a difference. To try to help people who are doing the best they can, but sometimes life has a way of hitting you upside the head. 

I was listening to my friends talk and I was thinking about each one of them. Bonnie Campbell, who's been a leader here in Iowa and did just wonderful work for our country when she was in the Justice Department during my husband's presidency. I think about her with her husband Ed, and how devoted she is to him and how caring she is in making sure that he is always taken care of and included. That kind of sums up the way we all live. We are not all the same in every setting we find ourselves, are we? When you're with your family, you're going to be a little bit different than when you're at work. When you're at work, you're going to be a little bit different than when you're at the mall. That all adds up to the people we are. Every time I think of Bonnie Campbell, I think about the work she's done for those who will never know her name and all she's done for people who are very close and personal to her. I'm very proud that she's my friend. 

Jeff Volk is someone who came into my life because of what happened to his family down in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina. I was grateful that we were able to give him some help, some advice, some information when he was, as any person would be, worried about his family. When I met him he started out by saying 'I'm a conservative Republican.' I said 'well, that's ok, my dad was a conservative Republican. But he evolved.' 

I have gotten to know Jeff and his family and I am so grateful for his support. It means a lot to me to have someone who knows we've got to cross party lines. That what's most important is that instead of acting like Democrats or Republicans, we start acting like Americans again and roll up our sleeves and solve our problems together. 

[Applause] 

I so appreciate Shannon coming all this way because she has a very demanding life and her wonderful daughter is getting such love and attention from a mom who adores her, who does everything she can for her. I've met a lot of moms like Shannon over many years, who don't know where to turn. I've met a lot of dads who can't figure out how they are supposed to take care of the person they love the most, a child who's been stricken with an illness maybe they've never heard of, or had an accident, and now needs so much care. These are people that I think every one of us can relate to, whether anything tragic and bad has happened to us personally, we know people who have faced the same dilemma that Shannon and her family faced. 

I believe I have a great honor and a privilege to be in public office. What I try to do everyday is figure out how to help somebody. You can't always pass the laws you want to pass right away. You can't snap your fingers and get people to cooperate. You have to work on that every minute of every day. But you can try to help somebody every single day. I have tried to do that as a public servant, as an activist, and now as a Senator and that's what I will do as president. Because I want to help those people like Shannon and so many others who deserve our help. 

My friend Besty, whom I met in 6th grade - in Mrs. King's class - has been with me through thick and thin, that's not just a reflection on how we look today. About the good times and the not so good times, we both have to do better on the other part. In junior high and high school, I wore really thick glasses, which I really hated. There was always some boy or another that I was hoping would notice me, so I used to take them off and that meant I did not know where I was going. Betsy would arrange to meet me so that we could walk down the hallway together so I would not bump into a locker, but also so she could say, 'Don is on the right.' I could say, 'Hi, Don,' like I actually did see him. She's been guiding me around ever since. I'm so pleased she could be here. She and her family are very important to mine. 

Each one of us could tell stories like this, about the people who you know and the people who know you. Here in Iowa, I want you to have some flavor of who I am outside of the television cameras - when all of the cameras and the lights disappear, what I do when nobody's listening or taking notes, and recording it. Because it is hard when you're in public life to have that kind of sharing experience with thousands and millions of people.

