 the Senator declared. 

 Senator Kennedy asserted. 

 Senator Kennedy spoke to a group of national leaders of civic and fraternal organizations meeting at his home in Hyannis Port. The group represented Americans of recent immigrant background of 21 national origins. 

 In discussing the plight of the people of captive nations, Senator Kennedy said: 

 There is no magic program or slogan to achieve our objective- the Senator said. 

 Senator Kennedy continued: 

 Senator Kennedy called attention to two other platform pledges of special interest to the group: 

 In addition to Mr. Jarema, the Ukrainian section was represented by the following: 

Mr. Anton Batiuk, president of the Ukrainian Workingman's Association; Mr. Joseph Lesawyer, national vice president of the Ukrainian National Association; Mrs. Mary Sypian, chairman, Ukrainian-Citizens Group of Rochester, N.Y.; and Mr. Walter Klawsnik, executive board, Ukrainian American Veterans. 

Senator John F. Kennedy today pledged that "high priority" would be given by a Democratic administration to the platform plank calling for amendments to the immigration and naturalization laws to ban discrimination based on national origin. 

Gov. G. Mennen Williams (Michigan), chairman of the nationalities division of the Democratic National Committee, attended the meeting along with 38 chairmen of sections of the nationalities division from various States. Also attending the meeting were Representatives Thaddeus Machrowicz (Michigan), and Henry S. Reuss (Wisconsin), and Mayor E. F. Voorde (Indiana), nationalities division members. 

Stephen J. Jarema, executive chairman of the Ukrainian Congress Committee was chosen to present to Senator Kennedy the group's opinions on immigration matters. He praised the ideas expressed in the Democratic platform and stressed the importance of putting these ideas into practice. He further pointed out that in March of this year President Eisenhower presented to Congress a recommendation for the establishment of a new quota system which would create a new classification of "Soviet citizen" for all people coming from the U.S.S.R. "This," Jarema said, "would in effect officially put our governmental stamp of approval on Russian Communist conquests and would undermine the struggle for in dependence on the part of the captive nations." Jarema also pointed out that it was Vice President Nixon's tie-breaking vote in 1952 that overrode President Truman's veto of the discriminatory McCarren-Walters Act on immigration while Senator Kennedy strongly fought to sustain the veto. 

The U.S. Congress, under Democratic leadership, has taken the initial steps toward liberalizing changes in immigration law, Senator Kennedy told the group. 

