 

 When the original 40-cent minimum became inadequate Congress raised it to 75 cents and later to $1 an hour. Now economic progress again requires a higher wage if we are to carry out the central purpose. An increase from $1 to $1.25 an hour is necessary to put those wage earners who earn the minimum in the same position, relative to other segments of the economy, that they occupied after the 1955 amendment. Thus the present bill merely extends to lower paid workers the gains already achieved by more fortunate groups through increased productivity and collective bargaining. 

 Any increase in the minimum would undoubtedly require some adjustment of the wages of other employees of the same business even though they earn more than the statutory minimum, but the increases would taper off rather quickly. As I pointed out earlier, since 1955 average hourly earnings have increased much faster than the statutory minimum. Generally speaking, wages at the bottom of the scale can be brought up to their old relationship without unduly narrowing differentials. 

 

Today we begin debate upon the minimum wage bill known as the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1960. 

The bill has two major purposes. First, it will raise the minimum wage now received by 2 1/2 million workers from $1.10 to $1.25 an hour. Second, it will extend the protection of the Fair Labor Standards Act to 5 million additional employees, chiefly in large-scale interstate retail and service industries, thereby guaranteeing these employees a fair minimum wage and a just premium for overtime. 

Conscience and good business sense join in demanding the enactment of this measure. The bill will extend to the lowest paid workers - to 3 1/2 million men and women and their families - a fairer opportunity to shave our high standard of living. To pass them by - to water down the help they need - or merely assume that prosperity at the top will someday reach them - shocks the conscience of those who care. 

The increases in purchasing power resulting from a higher minimum wage will help to restore consumer demand required to put our idle industrial capacity back to work. The elimination of unfair competition based upon substandard wages will protect fairminded employers anxious to maintain fair labor standards. 

The pending bill is the result of long and careful study. The Labor Subcommittee of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare held hearings on 10 days, in which it beard 77 witnesses. The relevant bills were reviewed in executive sessions in the course of which all members of the subcommittee made helpful contributions. The committee bill embodies a wide consensus of opinion among Senators from both sides of the aisle. The minority report is signed by only three Senators. 

The full extent of the changes to be made in the present law is summarized in a memorandum which I ask unanimous consent to have printed after my remarks in the Record. At this point I desire to speak only of the principal provisions. 

