 In accepting the assignment, Senator Smathers said: 

 Senator Smathers will have under his jurisdiction the campaigns in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, and Oklahoma.

Senator George Smathers of Florida has been named the Assistant Democratic National Chairman and campaign manager for the Democratic ticket in the Southern States, plus Texas and Oklahoma, it was announced today by Democratic Candidates John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. As Chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee for three terms, Senator Smathers has helped our party to gain more seats in the Senate than at any other comparable time in the history of the Nation. I would like to make it clear by the acceptance of this assignment that I do not seek any other position than that which I now hold as U.S. Senator from Florida. My ties are in Florida and that is where they will always remain so long as the people of Florida are willing. 

Senators Kennedy and Johnson said Senator Smathers has agreed to take on this assignment and will work with National Chairman Senator Henry M. Jackson and with National Campaign Manager Robert F. Kennedy. We know that he will bring to this job the experience which he has gained as the Chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, plus his fine ability to organize and lead. We believe that his acceptance of this appointment greatly enhances our chances for victory in November.I would like further to emphasize the fact that acceptance of this assignment does not in any way mean that I express approval of the Democratic platform nor indirect support of the Republican platform. Both of them are obnoxious and unrepresentative. 

In making the announcement, Senators Kennedy and Johnson said: In my judgment this election offers in the final analysis only two choices - the ticket of Kennedy and Johnson or that of Nixon and Lodge. I have served with each of these men in the Congress, and I respect each one of them. However, from my observation I cannot help but believe that the best interest of my State and the Nation will be served by working for the election of Kennedy and Johnson, who I think are best qualified to lead our country in these difficult years ahead.

